[Applause]
in the way of reality show Fame Jon
Gosselin has spent over a decade
fighting a very public divorce and
custody battle for his eight children
allegations of cheating abandonment
abuse and manipulation spread in the
headlines but John couldn't legally
respond now the ten-year gag order has
been lifted and John is here to set the
record straight telling his truth like
you've never heard it before Jon
Gosselin first famous as the father on
Jon & Kate Plus eight America's beloved
reality TV show about a couple and their
eight kids and then infamous after the
couple divorced it was mastered hate
accused John of cheating and dealing
drugs while John Andrews Kate stop
torturing their kicks John also made
headlines for party women stripping at
nightclubs and womanizing but now John
has a serious girlfriend and although
he's estranged from most of his children
two of the sextuplets live with him in a
recent Instagram post John said he loves
his life but with a gag order related to
litigation with the network that ran his
show finally lifted will he spill any
grudges against Kate speaking out for
the first time on our show please
welcome Jon Gosselin
[Applause]
so the audience was very excited to
visit with you today Oh lots of
questions your name evokes that and it
was important for you to be here as well
to set the record straight why I think
well I had the gag order for ten years
and you know that was put in place by
one TLC and then Family Court as well to
protect the kids seems reasonable yeah
it was reasonable but then it just kind
of dragged out as they got older and
then rumors were cropping out anyway but
it got to a point where I couldn't
defend myself because Cates show
continued and it just got super
difficult and I didn't have a platform
so I really didn't have a voice what's
your relationship like with your ex-wife
Kate though we don't have a relationship
right now so we don't talk
nothing it's very nothing the only time
I see my ex-wife is in court because
we've exhausted all opportunities to
co-parent like it's just never gonna
happen due to personality disorders and
everything else we just have different
aspects on how we want a parent and
moving forward you know my twins are 19
years old now and my sextuplets are
almost 16 so we're moving down the path
of you know two more years we're gonna
have all adults so a lot of folks who
have watched your story carefully and
that's a good part of the US population
see you as the villain yeah how its come
across I was portrayed as the villain
because Kate asked for the divorce and
they needed a reason TLC knee or the
network needed a reason to explain to
the public what was going on
so she asked for the divorce in 2009 I
left the show there was nine months
hiatus and then we were already divorced
and then the paparazzi started taking
pictures of me dating other women and
all the stuff but on TV it was shown as
me being married so the public was being
fooled because on television I'm married
but in reality I'm already divorced
city back to the beginning whose idea
was the show in the first place
was that you were Kate Kate's decision
Kate came to you said honey I've got an
idea
or Timlin called us how do they start
she called me at work and said they want
to film a one-hour documentary on
Discovery Health and then the reality
show came in effect she called me a
market mate they want to film a reality
show so I said well if it's gonna pay
the bills let's just see how it goes and
then we'll go from there and we're still
in Discovery Health we're not on TLC yet
so our first season was eight episodes
our second season was twelve our third
season with 40 episodes ooh and then our
fourth season was 52 episodes they make
you people some numbers on this had
looked at up the height of its reality
show Jon and Kate Plus 8 was attracting
10 million viewers per week for
comparison most big prime-time Network
sitcoms today are not pulling in those
numbers I'm interested in some of the
comforts that happened because of the
show I understand its success but we're
they're blurred lines was this something
that's hard to tell where the family
ended and the show the show began oh
absolutely I mean I remember one time
February I would say February 2008 we
filmed every single day except for two
there were got two points where I was
pushing camera crew out of our house and
then the network will come down and say
you have to film and I would say no I
don't so I was always the heavy and then
Kate would be like you're gonna get us
fired oh man I don't care if we get
fired like this is ridiculous this is
not my job this is not my career this is
my life like I don't need cameras in my
house all the time and you know it was
getting very commercialized where we
said oh we for instance I want to use
pampers but we want you to use Huggies
because of advertising you know when it
you know and all those kind of things
and I'm like well I want to use what's
best for my kid not what's best for the
network so little things started to play
an effect and commercialize and branding
and marketing and all these things which
also started driving wedges in our
marriage because she was like no we have
to do what they say and I'm like no I'm
doing what's best for our kid do you
start to live two different lives that
do you think your marriage
would have remained intact if it wasn't
for the cameras you know a lot of people
ask me that and it's hard to live in a
hypothetical but I think eventually
because of personality
it would have fizzled out anyway because
we first of all I got married at 22
years old and you just don't know you
know and you mentioned earlier repeated
it now that there was a personality
issue what is the personality issue
whose is it is it means au was a Kate
what's the problem well I think it's
both of us but I think she has a
narcissistic personality disorder
narcissistic yep I think she tends to
think more on her level of selfishness
selfishly instead of for others I think
I tend to think sometimes more for
others than for myself so I tend to not
worry what's going on with me when I
should sometimes but I also think that I
tend to look more towards my kids and
what's the best for them once I had them
but I also feel I'm passive-aggressive
which I got from my father so I only
learned all this stuff I went through
tons of therapy I still go to a
therapist so let's go back to keep
shaking so even before the cameras were
coming in did you did you perceive an
issue she's narcissistic you're saying
you're a passive-aggressive those things
don't tend to go together well were you
already having issues I didn't really
notice those personality disorders until
after filming fame and money and I think
feigns worse than money how did it pay
make it worse fames different only
because fame things are given to you
you're held to a higher standard you're
put on a pedestal the attention and what
it's like almost like a drug you know
like an addiction and you know once you
have that and that lifestyle you can see
certain tendencies and people it just it
feeds and feeds and fees so you're
struggling along the show is airing
doing incredibly well in the ratings how
huge and you want to pull back from
filming and you start having
marriage issues mm-hmm to the point that
you want a divorce how did the network
respond to that well Caitlyn divorce so
she came to me oh you didn't you it came
off from her yes yeah she wanted a
divorce she asked me she didn't want to
be married anymore
why because I didn't want to film
anymore I wasn't part of the business
model anymore she was gonna divorce you
because of the filming that's correct
not because of her passive aggression or
not helping with the kids or no I stayed
home she was on speaking tours so she
was traveling with her bodyguard
she was going on speaking tours I was
home with the nanny and watching the
kids and doing all the kid stuff does
she think you were having an affair not
with the nanny at that point we had the
same nanny for three years she thought I
was having an affair after like went
during separation in 2009 wish I wasn't
no you were not having an affair now
until you got divorced did you have an
affair with anyone no no she approaches
you she wants the separation what did
you say um I was like it was out of the
blue too because I was sitting at the
dining room table and I was just like
what are you talking about
she's like I'm done I don't want this
anymore you know you don't want to film
you don't want to go along with my plan
and filming on the kids and this and the
house and I'm like no I don't and you
know it's funny the network thought I
was nuts they actually hired me a
therapist and a psychiatrist and they
psych eval me why did he why did they
think you were nuts
because I would give up millions of
dollars not to film and just go live a
normal life I said enough was enough and
then I didn't I didn't understand why
they kept on doing this and then I found
out they were we made them 186 million
dollars a quarter when you're making you
know 186 million dollars a quarter for a
company you can't just go quit so the
CEO has got to explain to their
shareholders the president why the the
shares dropped because I took the show
off the air I literally hung a sign on
my
eight saying if any crew member show up
a huh be arrested for trespassing
they sue me for breach of contract I
pretty much bankrupt myself but I did
for moral reasons obviously I've spent
1.7 million in lawyers fees from when
TLC sued me and my divorce
Kaede on the other hand TLC paid for her
attorneys in the lawsuit and for her
divorce so I financed it by myself and
she was financed by the network and I
didn't understand at first why but now I
understand why all she wanted was legal
custody to fill my kids to sustain her
lifestyle and their lifestyle see it
gets all warped that's fame those he it
just twists things around thinking it
you have to sustain the whole thing
alright so we reached out the TLC for a
statement and they did not get back to
us in time for taping when we come back
John directly addresses the allegations
of abuse between Kate and their son
Collin who she says has special needs
including a look at the so called escape
letter that his son wrote we're back
with Jon Gosselin who rose to fame on
the reality show featuring his family
John and Kate Plus 8 so you've made some
very serious allegations about Kate
specifically regarding your son Collin
no this is this is important I want to
talk about Collin because it's sort of
an example of the company - you've had
do you believe that Kate is an unfit
mother well I believe that her belief
system is skewed that's what I believe I
believe her intentions in beginning were
good intentions bringing kids into the
world that she fought to have these kids
but I think once fame and money got
involved it twisted her belief system on
my end I've been fighting to get my kids
off TV forever now you know my son's
been to therapists he's been in
institutions
this is Collin this is
he's diagnosed with he has five
different diagnoses he's on medications
he goes the therapist he goes
traumatologist he goes to all these
doctors and psychiatrists and television
diagnosed proven by professional people
with over 20 years experience you know
and you know I mean how can I argue that
what's the diagnosis they've they've
given him that's forcing him to be in
institutions against as well
well he's age 12 right right so she Kate
institutionalized him without a
diagnosis and then created a diagnosis I
pulled him out of the institution he was
wrongfully institutionalized he did not
need to be an institution just because
he was a difficult child did not mean he
needed to be sent away against my will
against my right I did not know where he
went and I took me two and a half years
to find him and then it took me an extra
year to get him out John how's it
possible you did not know where your son
is you have custody over these children
I had physical custody and not legal at
the time and the only way I found out
that I knew her Collin was is Collin
wrote a letter and his roommate smuggled
it out his roommate
called my manager my manager vetted the
roommate cuz you never know it could be
anyone and that's how I found out that
where Collin was
can I sure everyone the letter yeah I
put it up for everyone to see I'm just
gonna breed a couple parts but this is
his hen written in crayon there's a
picture of the escaped letter so called
it says I'm not trying to trick you but
I still love you I told mom I want to
live with you but she said no and then
later on two sentences down she says she
was abusive to me after I left your
house I'm sorry I'm counting on you to
get me out of here it's painful to read
that from a twelve-year-old you know
how'd you feel when you saw that crayon
written letter of desperation it was it
was Harper again and I was actually in
the airport in Mexico when it was sent
to me
and I felt like we got to figure this
out so once I got joint legal I
presented a letter to the judge
obviously he was like this is crazy
we asked Kate where is he she wouldn't
tell him I said I don't need to know I
have the letter now and I called the
special-needs facility they said mr.
gostin will do anything you want you can
be fully involved I got my car I drove
him the first time I saw him in three
years what was that like see oh man I
cried he was different because he was
hung like Thorazine and all these
medicines like all doped up he way he'd
like his pictures now he weighed 75
pounds more than what you see now
because he was tranquilized most of the
time and how is he doing now
nice trained student he's in JROTC okay
is that possible they went for the east
utilized on Thorazine and again I'm
saying this according to you because I
can't I can't validate this to living
home normal with you love now we created
a family environment for him I visit him
in Pittsburgh twice a month for a year
now my girlfriend is a nurse
practitioner of mental health
she's a psych NP so I learned all that I
work in a clinical health care system
I'm the IT director of a clinical so so
I had to learn all this stuff
but with love oh yeah
like love that's it and just caring
about a human that I haven't like I had
to have reconnection therapy because I
don't know anything about him so I had
to learn all this stuff alright so we
reached out to representative for Kate
for comment and did not get back to us
in time for taping we'll be right back
be sure to subscribe to my channel so
you don't miss anything and remember to
check back often to see what's new